Add Identity Rebased Docs (#4714)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/iota-identity/explanations/about-identity-objects.mdx

  - getting-started
---

# Introduction to on-chain identities
An on-chain identity is a digital representation of an entity’s identity, where with "entity" we refer to either a person,
an object, an institution / company, etc.

> More concretely we represent a digital identity through a DID document and an on-chain digital identity is therefore a DID

Reviewer: I wonder if we can flip this around, where a DID document is a representation of an on-chain Identity. Does that make sense?

Author: What about now?

document stored on a DLT, which enriches the SSI properties of the DID with the security guarantees of a blockchain network.

## On-chain Identities with multiple controllers
The [DID method specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#did-controller) defines the DID controller as _an entity that
is authorized to make changes to a DID Document_. 
We leverage this definition to define an Identity's controller as an entity that is a DID controller to the Identity's
DID Document.

A DID document may have multiple controllers which can enact control over the document in two ways:
- [indipendent control](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control);
- [group control](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#group-control);

> On-chain Identities can have more than one controller too and the two control strategies mentioned above are instantiated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly on-chain Identities can have more than one controller and the two control strategies mentioned above are instantiated
```

like so:

> - [**indipendent control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control): each controller accesses the identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**independent control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control): each controller accesses the identity
```

  through its own address.  
- [**group control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#group-control): the access to the Identity is multiplexed through an 
  address that is shared by all controllers (e.g. multisig address).

# Identity Object
With "identity" or "Identity Object" we refer to an on-chain identity instanced on an IOTA network and that complies with the
[IOTA DID method specification](../../references/iota-identity/iota-did-method-spec.mdx).

More specifically, an Identity Object is a **shared** _Move_ object that stores a single DID Document on the network,
allowing both on-chain and off-chain actors to interact with it.

> Designing Identity as a shared object enables both aforementioned control strategies. This couldn't be possible using owned 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Designing Identity as a shared object enables both aforementioned control strategies. This wouldn't be possible using owned 
```

objects, as they can only be referenced in transactions by their owner address - making _group control_ the only viable strategy
for shared control.

The Identity Object's unique ID is used to derive the actual DID of the DID Document it contains.

> :::warning

Reviewer: Arent those Identities resolvable by both Ids?

Author: They are but we are not really talking about resolution here. I can specify it tho

Migrated Identities - i.e. Identities that are derived from legacy Stardust Identities through a migration operation - do not
share this property. In fact, the unique ID of a migrated Identity is not used to derive the Identity's DID but instead it 
appears in the Identity's DID Document's `alsoKnownAs` property. 
:::

## Identity's Access Control

An `Identity` is a shared object and is thus accessible by anyone. For this reason, it is of paramount importance to 
limit the use of an `Identity`'s APIs - especially its mutable ones - to only the intended actors.

### Controllers, `ControllerCap`, and `DelegationToken`
An Identity controller is an entity that is authorized to make changes to an Identity.
In order to allow a broader range of 

> actors to act as an `Identity`'s controller - e.g. an `Identity` controlling  another `Identity` - a controller is identified 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actors to act as an `Identity`'s controller - e.g. an `Identity` controlling another `Identity` - a controller is identified 
```

through its **controller capability** `ControllerCap`.
A `ControllerCap` is a token that allows anyone who possess it to invoke a controller-restricted capability on a given Identity.

Specifically, `ControllerCap`s are _non-store Move_ objects that behaves in a similar way to **soul-bound tokens** - i.e. they are attached to the address that owns them indefinitely and can only be destroyed after the controllers committee allows it.

> Given the strict nature of `ControllerCap`, in order to support use-cases where the access to an Identity wants to be traded -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the restrictive nature of `ControllerCap`, in order to support use-cases where the access to an Identity wants to be traded -
```

  - getting-started
---

> # Introduction to on-chain identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Introduction to on-chain Identities
```

> # Introduction to on-chain Identities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Introduction to On-chain Identities

```

> DID documents allow to digitally represent an entity’s identity, where with "entity" we refer to either a person,
> an object, an institution / company, etc. DID documents can therefore be thought of as digital identities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DID documents allow us to digitally represent an entity’s identity, where "entity" refers to either person,
 object, institution, company, etc. DID documents can, therefore, be thought of as digital identities.
```

> When a DID document is stored on a blockchain network, its SSI properties are enriched by the security guarantees of the DLT,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a DID document is stored on a blockchain network, its Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) properties are enriched by the security guarantees of the DLT,
```

obtaining an on-chain identity.

> ## On-chain Identities with multiple controllers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## On-chain Identities with Multiple Controllers

```

The [DID method specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#did-controller) defines the DID controller as _an entity that
is authorized to make changes to a DID Document_. 
We leverage this definition to define an Identity's controller as an entity that is a DID controller to the Identity's
DID Document.

A DID document may have multiple controllers which can enact control over the document in two ways:

> - [indipendent control](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control);
> - [group control](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#group-control);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Independent control](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control);
- [Group control](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#group-control);
```

> Similarly on-chain Identities can have more than one controller and the two control strategies mentioned above are instantiated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, on-chain Identities can have more than one controller, and the two control strategies mentioned above are instantiated
```

like so:

> - [**independent control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control): each controller accesses the identity
>   through its own address.  
> - [**group control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#group-control): the access to the Identity is multiplexed through an 
>   address that is shared by all controllers (e.g. multisig address).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [**Independent control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#independent-control): Each controller accesses the identity
  through its own address.  
- [**Group control**](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#group-control): Access to the Identity is multiplexed through an 
  address that is shared by all controllers (e.g., multi-sig address).
```

> # Identity Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Identity Object
```

> With "identity" or "Identity Object" we refer to an on-chain identity instanced on an IOTA network and that complies with the
> [IOTA DID method specification](../../references/iota-identity/iota-did-method-spec.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With "identity" or "Identity Object" we refer to an on-chain identity instanced on an IOTA network that complies with the
[IOTA DID method specification](../../references/iota-identity/iota-did-method-spec.mdx).
```

More specifically, an Identity Object is a **shared** _Move_ object that stores a single DID Document on the network,
allowing both on-chain and off-chain actors to interact with it.
Designing Identity as a shared object enables both aforementioned control strategies. This wouldn't be possible using owned 
objects, as they can only be referenced in transactions by their owner address - making _group control_ the only viable strategy
for shared control.

The Identity Object's unique ID is used to derive the actual DID of the DID Document it contains.

:::warning

> Migrated Identities - i.e. Identities that are derived from legacy Stardust Identities through a migration operation - do not
> share this property. In fact, the unique ID of a migrated Identity is not used to derive the Identity's DID but instead it 
> appears in the Identity's DID Document's `alsoKnownAs` property. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrated Identities - i.e., those derived from legacy Stardust Identities through a migration operation - do not
share this property. The unique ID of a migrated Identity is not used to derive the Identity's DID; instead, it 
appears in the Identity's DID Document `alsoKnownAs` property.
```

:::

## Identity's Access Control

An `Identity` is a shared object and is thus accessible by anyone. For this reason, it is of paramount importance to 
limit the use of an `Identity`'s APIs - especially its mutable ones - to only the intended actors.

### Controllers, `ControllerCap`, and `DelegationToken`
An Identity controller is an entity that is authorized to make changes to an Identity.
In order to allow a broader range of 

> actors to act as an `Identity`'s controller - e.g. an `Identity` controlling another `Identity` - a controller is identified 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
actors to act as an `Identity`'s controller - e.g., an `Identity` controlling another `Identity` - a controller is identified 
```

through its **controller capability** `ControllerCap`.
A `ControllerCap` is a token that allows anyone who possess it to invoke a controller-restricted capability on a given Identity.

Specifically, `ControllerCap`s are _non-store Move_ objects that behaves in a similar way to **soul-bound tokens** - i.e. they are attached to the address that owns them indefinitely and can only be destroyed after the controllers committee allows it.

Given the restrictive nature of `ControllerCap`, in order to support use-cases where the access to an Identity wants to be traded -

> e.g. leasing it for some time, or given to a smart contract - a new kind of `store`-able token is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
e.g., leasing it for some time or given to a smart contract - a new kind of `store`-able token is needed.
```

`DelegationToken` exists for this exact reason.

`DelegationToken` is a `store` _Move_ object that can only be minted from a `ControllerCap` and that allows whoever presents it

> to act as a **delegate** of the controller who minted it. `DelegationToken`s can be revoked at any moment by the controllers 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to act as a **delegate** of the controller who minted it. `DelegationToken`s can be revoked at any moment by the controller's 
```

committee. 

> Furthermore, `DelegationToken`s come with a permissions list - that is set by the minting controller upon the token creation - that limits their capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, `DelegationToken`s come with a permissions list - set by the minting controller upon the token creation - that limits their capabilities.
```

:::warning
Not all `ControllerCap`s are allowed to mint `DelegationToken`s. When a new controller is added to the controllers committee it
is necessary to specify whether the new controller is allowed to delegate its access or not.
:::

> ### Voting power and threshold

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Voting Power and Threshold
```

When an `Identity` has more than a single controller, an access control (AC) policy for the `Identity` must be established. Such 
a policy is represented by an unsigned integer **threshold** that is established upon the `Identity`'s creation.

> Together with the `Identity`'s threshold, each controller is assigned with a **voting power**, i.e. an unsigned integer that 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Together with the `Identity`'s threshold, each controller is assigned a **voting power**, i.e. an unsigned integer that 
```

acts as a sort of _weight_ in the evaluation of an AC control policy.   

> Giving different voting power or weights to each controllers enable a wider range of AC policy that can be enforced on an 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Giving different voting power or weights to each controller enables a wider range of AC policies that can be enforced on an 
```

Identity.

### Proposals
Whenever a controller wants to make a change to its `Identity`, a **proposal** encapsulating that change is created instead of 
carrying out the update right away.

> In order to execute the changes contained in a `Proposal` enough controllers need to approve it. The exact number of approvals 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To execute the changes contained in a `Proposal`, enough controllers need to approve it. The exact number of approvals 
```

> depends on the controllers' voting powers as well as the `Identity`'s threshold. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
depends on the controllers' voting powers, as well as the `Identity`'s threshold. 
```

`Proposal`s keep track of the approvals they receive by internally storing the sum of all approving controllers' voting powers 
in a field called `votes`.
A `Proposal` can only be executed after `votes` exceeds the `Identity`'s threshold.

> # Identities Hierarchies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identity Hierarchies
```

Creating hierarchies of identities can be extremely useful for modeling situations like subsidiaries for companies or custodians 
for humans.

> In order to create such hierarchies, an Identity must be able to control another. Achieving this is as simple as making an 
> Identity a controller of another Identity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create such hierarchies, an identity must be able to control another. Achieving this is as simple as assigning an 
Identity as a controller of another Identity.
```

More concretely, assuming we have two Identities: Identity **A**, and Identity **B**; if we want to model the fact that **A** 
controls **B**, we add **A** to the list of **B**'s controllers by sending to **A**'s address a `ControllerCap` for Identity 
**B**.
With this setup in place, controllers of Identity **A** can borrow **A**'s `ControllerCap` to **B** and use it to invoke **A**'s
capability on **B**.

> ## Assets ownership and transfers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Assets Ownership and Transfers
```
